Blockchain-based Electronic Voting System for  Modern Democracy: A review 
DylanWeiss, Jacob Wolmer, and Avimanyou Vatsa 
22dweiss@tenafly.k12.nj.us, 22jwolmer@tenafly.k12.nj.us, avatsa@fdu.edu 

Abstract - Electoral integrity is not only imperative for  countries that are ruled by democracy, but it is also  influential in enhancing public voters’ confidence and  accountability. Also, security, integrity and, trust are  three essential pillars of fair and modern democracy. The  use of blockchain technology leverages the expected level  of protection. Also, it provides cheaper, faster, and  immutable service to the liquid democracy where voters  can review their casted votes at any instant. Thus, there  is a need to use blockchain-based electronic voting  systems. E-voting systems can be defended easily and  efficiently using the blockchain principles of universal  ownership, transaction format, and storage in a chain.  Another wall between freedom and the fall of democracy  is that to change results; one would need approval from  everyone who voted and to go back through each block  in the chain to get to a specific transaction. Using Smart  Contracts erase the middleman of current systems and  are digital documentation of the transaction and proof  for certification of votes. Also, this system fulfills the  essential requirements of e-voting systems which  includes: no coerce to voters, no traceability of voters’  identity, the assurance and proof of vote, no one could  change the casted votes, the counting of votes and  election result must be decentralized, security and  integrity of ballot to cast individual votes. There are  many proposed frameworks are available in the  literature. Therefore, this paper reviewed those existing  frameworks and found the essential requirements and  possible solutions to implement in the e-voting system.  
Index Terms - e-Voting System, Blockchain, Ethereum,  Democracy, Federal Election Commission (FEC). 
INTRODUCTION 
Electronic voting (e-voting) has become increasingly  popular in our technology-driven world. Not only do  countries vary in the form of electronic voting, but they also  vary in the amount of usage, with countries like Brazil  relying solely on electronic voting and countries like Italy  only beginning to experiment with electronic voting methods  in 2006 [3, 21]. The different forms of e-voting range from  the use of punch cards, optical scan systems, and direct recording electronic (DRE) voting systems to voting via  Internet ballots and telephone votes. 
Initially, e-voting was proposed to solve the challenges of  paper-based voting to ensure accurate and bias-free  elections. While adopting an e-voting system, one must ask:  Why is the electronic voting system considered a better  option than a traditional ballot voting paper? It not only  improves democracy but is expected to be a solution for  some problematic situations such as improving accessibility  to the election, the elderly, and the disabled ability to vote,  increasing election turnout, and being easy to operate getting  a quick result. However, it is well-known that operating e voting systems under strict security procedures is crucial,  primarily when relying on advanced encryption techniques [6]. Security issues concerning e-voting systems have been  extensively studied in the literature. The studies show that  the utilization of e-voting may entail the following  challenges: data integrity, reliability, transparency, the  secrecy of the ballot, consequences of breakdown,  uneducated voters, specialized IT skills, storage of  equipment, security, results of fraud, and cost.  
E-VOTING SYSTEMS BENEFITS AND  
CHALLENGES 
The e-voting system has many benefits. It is very convenient  in vote casting because it eliminates transportation and  postage on paper ballots. A quality e-voting system would  allow people to forego the usual hurdles for casting a vote  and increase election participation [3, 21]. However, these  remarkable benefits come with many challenges. People are  afraid when it comes to voting online due to election  tampering. There is the possibility of malicious activities,  including malware attacks, with internet access. 
Additionally, hackers could tamper with votes, election  process, and results. Further, many people who aren’t  familiar with Blockchain Technology (BT) could eliminate  the above drawbacks. The features of emerging and evolving  BT may solve issues like election tampering, decreased  voting accuracy, and disenfranchisement [3, 6, 9, 13]. 
The confidentiality, authentication, and integrity of e voting is also a remarkable and challenging issue. Thus, the  DRE voting machines or kiosk voting (forms of e-voting in a  polling station or another area that election officials  supervise) solve the voters’ identification issues, but it looks  like a similar process as we have been using in the  traditional voting system. Furthermore, voters authenticate  themselves with an electronic ID card with remote Internet  voting. If such a system does not exist, they can authenticate  themselves by using a combination of username, password, 
due authentication, and associated personal information [3,  13, 20].  
A necessary precondition is an electronic voters’  registration. In the case of voter identification, additional  arrangements need to be in place to ensure that the voters’  identity may not be linked to the content of their vote.  Specific cryptographic or BT security measures are needed  in order to guarantee that these two sets of information  cannot be connected at any time and under any  circumstances (secrecy of the vote). Also, it is essential that  these measures are reliable and they can be communicated  and demonstrated to interested stakeholders [3, 5, 6]. 
A secure electoral process ensures that votes are  counted in accordance with the will of the voters. In  civiciti’s e-voting processes, in addition to logical and  physical protection layers, mechanisms are established to  ensure that only users accredited by an official document  participate so that all security guarantees are provided that  equate the electronic voting process with a classic electoral  process [17]. 
Another issue is the psychological and social aspects;  making people believe in this new reality is necessary. There  is much skepticism aimed at anything online replacing the  authentication and integrity of paper ballots. Especially BT,  which is relatively new and not known widely in the general  public. Many believe it is a scam due to the fact that it is  tough, almost nearly impossible, to differentiate legitimacy  and fraud. Due to the truth is relies on an individual  verifying their vote, there can be significant pressures. A  local man can force someone else to vote how he wants to as  the only way to approve the vote is by the individual, and  someone can physically force you to vote a particular way.  Many also believe that it does not solve many of the issues  that voting has, in fact, it only creates more. It is impossible  to detect using BT to know if a vote has been hacked and  altered prior to its receiving in the blockchain system (meet in-middle attacks). There are a few issues to BT voting  systems that are crucial to solving in order to replace the  current election system [16,18,19]. 
USEFULNESS OF BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY  AND SMART CONTRACT 
BT is a decentralized system that enables connected and  shared securely and immutable information. The simplest  form is blocks of information that are connected one a chain  which is a public digital database [3, 22]. The idea that  blockchain is public is very important because it creates a  system of checking. There is no one ruler or commander of  blockchain technology; therefore, it is more secure and  immutable than other systems. The blocks in the system are  essential and remarkable for three main reasons. First, they  share a plethora of information about transactions on aspects  such as date, time, and dollar amount. It also stores  information on the person who made the purchase and from  what. But it has a safety aspect, so the name displayed is not  the actual name of a person but rather a code (public key), so  others do not know your personal information on your  
purchases. The technology also uses hash code  (cryptographic hash), creating a secret code for your  transaction that is so unique that it is impossible to tell what  it is. Even if someone purchases something very similar to  what you did, the hash code would be extremely different.  Blocks can also store a few MegaByte (MB) of data, which  means that each block can hold any different transactions  from many different people [2, 9]. Each new transaction is  added to the chain. To have the block added to the chain,  four things happen. First, a transaction has to happen. Then,  it has to be verified, and this is a crucial step because many  nodes check to see this, which secures the integrity and  safety of blockchain. Next, the block is stored. And finally,  the block has a unique hash assigned to it [2, 9]. There are  four main benefits to the security aspect of BT. The first is  immutability, or no other person can change data. Next is  tamper prom, which essentially makes censorship  impossible. Then security hacking is protected against, and  there is no centralization, so hacking is much more complex.  And lastly, zero downtime, which means applications are  always running and can never be turned off. 
BT leverages the opportunity to have secure e voting that protects the privacy and integrity of the  individual (voters, candidates, and FEC personnel, etc.) and  correctly counts the number of votes without any  interference. Due to the advanced security measures, it is  nearly impossible to hack the associated data or activities.  Since it is a chain, going back and changing something  would essentially mean one must go back and change  everything on the chain after that point. Also, the uniqueness  of the hash code makes it even harder to hack. No one can  figure out what each hash means therefor, it would be  impossible to hack if one did not know the hash code. And,  the voters' authentication, privacy, and integrity would be  held as no one knows who each individual is because of the  code number that acts as a username for each individual  person. Lastly, the verification system that involves many  computers would be nearly impossible to attack. Overall, the  BT has fascinating security aspects that make it very close to  impossible to attack and change the votes. The smart  contracts of BT and cryptographic methods are a great way  to collect and count votes. Additionally, it fulfills the  requirements of remote voting and protects the democracy in  a fair and trustworthy way [1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 14, 22]. 
Smart contracts are a new and advanced way to  essentially “erase the middleman” in an exchange of  anything from money to the property to shares of a value.  Smart contracts are significant because they clearly show the  rules and penalties that are similar to a contract. Still, they  also automatically enforce those rules in the agreement.  Vittalik Buterin nicely states, “in a smart contract approach,  an asset or currency is transferred into a program and the  program runs this code and at some point, it automatically  validates a condition and it automatically determines  whether the asset should go to one person or back to the  other person, or whether it should be immediately refunded  to the person who sent it or some combination thereof.” 
Smart contracts are also a good tool as they create an  automatic receipt that replicates the document and stores it  for security purposes and integrity to create fewer issues  further down the road. The smart contract is written in code  that is highly useful due it being simple yet complex. It  identifies and portrays the rules and regulations of an  agreement and erases the need for a middleman. The  contract helps with the security aspect as it creates digital  documentation and receipt of any transaction. It is also  helpful because it is a validation tool to ensure something  happens or does not happen. Smart contracts are  revolutionary and help in many different ways [4, 20]. 
Smart contracts are very unique and useful. It is an  extremely useful tool that can propel blockchain and even  society's services further. The ability for the smart contract  to initiate the agreement is one of the many essential steps  that it takes to achieve the overall goal. Also, the fact that it  checks for verification is critical and crucial in the sense that  it can help with other projects (including the e-voting  system) by securing the data and helping reduce the risk of  violating the integrity and hacking. Smart contracts make it  clear what is being agreed upon and verify the transaction.  Also, they “erase” the middleman because the contract  themselves establishes the principles in the agreement going  forward. This helps even more with the security aspect as it  makes it so no one will have to rely on a third-party source  that can potentially be biased or interfere with important  matters such as online voting. Lastly, they create an online  receipt that makes ensuring and validation even easier so no  lies can be told essentially and there is forever data and  evidence of something. Smart contracts are very important  and are helpful in numerous ways [3, 12, 15, 20].  
BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY FRAMEWORK:  ETHEREUM 
Ethereum is a platform that is available for everyone across  the globe that is decentralized so not run by anyone who is  primarily focused on money and other general applications  (e.g., e-voting). It is a platform that enables people to write  their code for applications for others to use globally. It is  based on blockchain technology but is simpler and easier to  use source to build and deploy applications (e-voting). It  focuses on the coding aspect and uses people's code to run  projects. The token (cryptocurrency) is called an Ether in the  platform, but gas is also needed to execute a task. The  beauty of it is that there is no possibility for any disruptions  such as fraud or interference. Ethereum is unique because it  does not have a limited amount of operation, giving the  developer more freedom. Ethereum is unique and platforms  independently because it has a specific Ethereum Virtual  Machine (EVM), enabling anyone using any language to use  the platform. This helps make different applications all in  one same site. It saves a lot of time and is extremely  efficient. Ethereum allows any centralized system to be  decentralized and not have/run by a single person or  network. Ethereum also uses DAO’s (Decentralized  
Autonomous Organizations), which are autonomous and  decentralized and use code under the smart contracts which  are created on the platform [3, 8, 10]. The basic principles of  DAO’s are “owned by everyone who purchases tokens, but  instead of each token equating to equity shares & ownership,  tokens act as contributions that give people voting rights.”  Ethereum is so universal that is enables other applications  and more cryptocurrencies (Ether) to be based and off from  Ethereum. The downside is that humans create smart  contracts, so they can be prone to human error, creating  issues further down the road. Ethereum has many upsides  and is a new and efficient way to build, design, implement,  and learn. 
HOW AND WHY IS ETHEREUM FRAMEWORK A  GOOD FIT FOR AN E-VOTING SYSTEM? 
Ethereum is the perfect fit for voting systems due to the  many factors and benefits that come with it. First, e-voting  systems need to be equipped and ready to handle attacks and  be very secure to avoid such problems. In addition, there is  the factor that it is run by everyone involved, not one group,  so it is even harder to hack. Furthermore, it is a blockchain  technology with its many cryptographic benefits, like a  public key, digital signature, and hash coding that makes it  impossible to go back and alter the data. Thus, Ethereum is  very secure and can implement e-voting systems. There are  numerous benefits, and it has the necessary detection against  hacking and changing data is essentially impossible due to  the complex and intricate technology that is inside of  Ethereum platform [4, 16, 18, 19]. The programming  language used to implement the e-voting and other  applications are Solidity. Due to its specificity and easily to  handle language with a large amount of data, it is the best  with e-voting [3, 15, 20]. Since the elections will have  millions of transactions, the language needs to be able to  handle large amounts of data, which is the main reason  solidity will be used [2]. 
PROS, CONS, AND SOLUTION OF A NEW E VOTING SYSTEMS 
E-voting systems have been around for a long time, but there  are many cons. Manually having to go to a specific place can  put a strain on voting and make people less likely to vote  than voting digitally online. An example of this includes  during the coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19), voting  cannot be taking place as people should not be in contact  with others. Online or e-voting fixes the issue as one can  vote from wherever.  
E-voting systems have many issues that can  potentially be exploited to alter an election. As of now, there  are still many flaws in the system that have been deciding  leaders of the world. There is also an aspect of unfairness  and voter suppression with the current system. States can  decide where to put voting areas and put fewer options in  areas that tend to vote a certain way. There are many other 
issues and flaws with the current system that need to be  addressed for future elections to prevent the integrity of  elections and the democracy that our country was founded  on and makes us who we are. It is our duty to protect and  establish a right and just system to elect our leaders [5, 7, 9]. 
Another problem is that voting means taking a lot  of time in some cases out of one’s day and driving/going to  the nearest polling station, which in some cases is miles  away. This is another issue as it can steer people away from  voting as many values work more and do not want to go  through the tricky hassle to cast a vote over voting. The  issues that occur right now need to be fixed and they will  only create more problems in the future. With the utmost  urgency, society transitions to a new form of voting that can  ensure fairness and stop the issues that are going on right  now.  
These are fixed in the blockchain-based e-voting  system (e.g., BCT-Voting [3]). Although it solves many  other major problems, it is tough for people to accept change  and many might be hesitant to adapt to the new BT world.  An important strategy to fix this issue is to educate and  inform the public on what the new system is and how it  operates to know what happens and the integrity and success  of the new system. This can be done in various ways.  Educating the public on a certain topic can come in all  forms. For example, creating many websites makes it easy to  learn what is happening and broadcasting on news channels  what is happening so those who are skeptical or wish to  learn more have the opportunity to do so. The last issue is  that someone can coerce and force someone to vote a certain  way. This is a problem because only you can confirm your  vote virtually. But someone can physically be next to you  and watch you and make you vote a certain way. This is a  more significant issue of people harming others. If this is the  case, it is best to report this to authorities and have them  handle the issue as it is a crime to do this. The new system  clears the way to a brighter future that can erase the issues of  current voting systems. Although its potential brings some  problems, these issues can be dealt with and fixed.  Therefore, the new online blockchain voting system is the  optimal option [10, 11, 13]. 
Another aspect of the plan is to make it, so people  do not have to travel places to vote and do not have to go  through the time-consuming and stressful form of voting that  is currently in place. The BCT-Voting system is an excellent  win for elections as it will ensure that everyone can vote no  matter the circumstance as well as being able to protect and  continue fair and balanced elections \cite{raikar2021}. Since  BCT-Voting is a Dapp, it would mean that anyone can vote  from anywhere. Due to the BT in place, it is more secure and  non-vulnerable to attacks than current systems. Additionally,  smart contracts in the Ethereum framework make it even  safer for people to use and keep the integrity of the vote and  the election safe and secure. Many small details and preventions, like codes and computer checking, make it  essentially impossible to hack [3, 4, 12, 15]. 
REQUIRED DATABASE AND PROCESSES ON E VOTING SYSTEM 
E-voting (e.g., BCT-Voting, etc.) is a voting method that  uses electronic devices to record or count votes. The e voting system needs to include registration, verification,  voting, tallying phases, and donation module [3, 20].  Furthermore, these steps are involved in the e-voting system:  The first process is to register voters and candidates  (registration). Then, BT-based authentication is based on  voters’ credentials on election day (verification, validation,  and authentication). Next phase, eligible voters can vote  (casting collation). The vote should be encrypted and  verifiable. The confidentiality, anonymity, and accuracy of  the votes must be guaranteed and cannot be changed or  deleted in any way. Finally, e-voting systems counting is  done by adding all the votes according to the design  (counting presentation of results) [3,20]. 
THREATS OF VALIDITY AND FUTURE DIRECTION 
Several threats may arise when conducting a systematic  mapping study. For example, not all relevant sources of  voters’ credentials may be identified. In order to eliminate  this threat, we have to identify the correct source and search  criteria on various databases of FEC. The external  verification and validation refer to the extent of the results of  the trust. It can be generalized for other situations, people  and times. In addition, what are the other possible research  questions and corresponding solutions that need to be  addressed in the e-voting system? Also, do we need to  change the platforms/consensus algorithm in e-voting  deployment? 
Moreover, we may create public and private keys  with crypto phrases, a sequence of less than or greater than  twelve words. The crypto phrases may be created using  smart contract. This will give each user a unique and easy to  remember public and private keys that needs to be entered to  gain access to the e-voting system. An example of a crypto  phrase is “the cat runs donkey fdu yale ronny displacement  energy cow mice corn”, an easy crypto phrase for more  efficiency. Crypto phrase may retrieve on-chain data quickly  from the database of BCT-Voting systems. 
CONCLUSION 
In our systematic review, e-voting as a result of emerging  research questions and benefits are discussed in terms of  current blockchain research and trends. Further, this paper  mentioned issues like current benefits and challenges and the  usefulness of BT and smart contrast in e-voting. It  contributes to the possible chances of progressive growth  and benefit of society or community. In addition, it argued  on pros, cons, and potential remedies such that vulnerable  threats may differ. Finally, it addressed the possible  improvement in the e-voting system for humanity.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
Fairleigh Dickinson University supports this work under the  research release time grant.  
REFERENCES 
[1] Conway, L. (2020, November 18). Blockchain Explained. Retrieved  June 18, 2020, https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/blockchain.asp [2] Cryptopusco, Bytes and strings in Solidity. Retrieved May 03, 2020, https://medium.com/@cryptopusco/bytes-and-strings-in-solidity f2cd4e53f388 
[3] Deepali Raikar and Avimanyou Vatsa (2021). BCT–Voting: A  Blockchain Technology Based Voting Sys- tem. The 27th  International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Processing  Techniques and Applications (PDPTA’21), July 26 - 29, 2021, Las  Vegas, USA (It is held jointly with the 2021 World Congress in  Computer Science, Computer Engineering, and Applied Computing  (CSCE’21) - American Council on Science and Education)  
[4] Ethereum Developer Resources. (n.d.). Retrieved July 11, 2020, https://ethereum.org/developers/ 
[5] Fowler, S. Why do Nonwhite Georgia voters have to wait in line for  HOURS? Too Few polling places. Retrieved March 18, 2021, https://www.npr.org/2020/10/17/924527679/why-do-nonwhite georgia-voters-have-to-wait-in-line-for-hours-too-few-polling-pl 
[6] F. p ́. Hjálmarsson, G. K. Hreióarsson, M. Hamdaqa, and G.  Hjálmtýsson, “Blockchain-based e-voting system,” in IEEE 11th  International Conference on Cloud Computing (CLOUD), no.  18079263 in IEEE 11th International Conference on Cloud  Computing (CLOUD), (San Francisco, CA), pp. 983–986, IEEE,  2018.  
[7] Kirillov, D., Korkhov, V., Petrunin, V., Makarov, M., Khamitov, I., &  Dostov, V. (2019, July 01). Implementation of an E-Voting Scheme  Using Hyperledger Fabric Permissioned Blockchain. Retrieved  January 03, 2021, https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3- 030-24296-1_40 
[8] Kosinski, John R. “Ethereum Oracle Contracts: Setup and  Orientation.” Toptal Engineering Blog, Toptal, 17 Oct. 2018, www.toptal.com/ethereum/ethereum-oracle-contracts-tutorial-pt1. 
[9] Lopes, J., Pereira, J. L., & Varajão, J. (n.d.). Blockchain Based E voting System: A Proposal, Retrieved May 03,2020, https://aisel.aisnet.org/amcis2019/global_dev/global_dev/14/ 
[10] Neisse, R., Steri, G., and Nai-Fovino, I. (2017). A blockchain-based  approach for Data accountability and Provenance Tracking.  Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Availability,  Reliability and Security. https://doi.org/10.1145/3098954.3098958 
[11] Kenny Li. Crypto Wallet Vs. Address. Retrieved July 28, 2020, https://hackernoon.com/crypto-wallet-vs-address-54f7fb980bd3 [12] Rosic, A. and Blockgeeks. Smart Contracts: The Blockchain  Technology That Will Replace Lawyers. Retrieved July 08, 2020,  from https://blockgeeks.com/guides/smart-contracts/ 
[13] Ruhi Ta¸ and Ömer Özgür Tanrıöver “A Systematic Review of  Challenges and Opportunities of Blockchain for E-Voting" https://www.mdpi.com/2073-8994/12/8/1328/htm 
[14] Shankland, Stephen. “No, Blockchain Isn't the Answer to Our Voting  System Woes.” CNET, CNET, 5 Nov. 2018, www.cnet.com/news/blockchain-isnt-answer-to-voting-system-woes/. 
[15] Solidity, “Solidity is an object-oriented and high-level programing  language,” tech. rep., Ethereum Revision,  https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.11/ (Solidity Documentation  Release 0.8.11), Accessed on January 2022.  
[16] Hacker Noon , “Technical Guide to Generating an Ethereum  Addresses.”, 15 Jan, 2020, https://hackernoon.com/how-to-generate ethereum-addresses-technical-address-generation-explanation-25r3zqo 
[17] Wang, B., & Sun, J. (2017, August 18). Large-scale Election Based on  Blockchain. Retrieved May 12, 2020, https://www.researchgate.net/publication/324513622_Large scale_Election_Based_On_Blockchain 
[18] Vatsa, A., Indu Singh and Anju Shukla (2011). Novel Architecture of  Delay and Routing in MANET for QoS. International Journal of  Engineering Science and Technology 3, 582–591.  
[19] Vatsa, A. and Gaurav Kumar (2010). A Novel Architecture for QoS  Management in MANET using Mobile Agent. International Journal of  Computer and Network Security 2, 113–119.  
[20] Jacob Wolmer, DylanWeiss, and Avimanyou Vatsa, “Retrieval of  Data from the Database of a BCT-Voting System”, IEEE Integrated  STEM Education Conference (ISEC), March 26, 2022. (Under  review) 
[21] Yousif Abuidris, Rajesh Kumar, Ting Yang, and Joseph Onginjo,  Secure large-scale E-voting system based on blockchain contract  using a hybrid consensus model combined with sharding, ETRI  Journal, Volume 43, No. 2, pp: 357-370, Wiley, 2021. DOI:  10.4218/etrij.2019-0362 
[22] Baocheng Wang, Jiawei Sun, Yunhua He, Dandan Pang, and  Ningxiao Lu, Large-scale Election Based On Blockchain, 2017  International Conference on Identification, Information and  Knowledge in the Internet of Things, ScienceDirect, Procedia  Computer Science 129 (2018) 234–237, 2018. DOI:  10.1016/j.procs.2018.03.063 
AUTHOR INFORMATION 
Dylan Weiss, Deep Chain Lab, Fairleigh Dickinson  University and a student of Tenafly High School, Tenafly,  NJ. 
Jacob Wolmer, Deep Chain Lab, Fairleigh Dickinson  University and a student of Tenafly High School, Tenafly,  NJ. 
Avimanyou Vatsa, Assistant Professor, Department of  Computer Science, Fairleigh Dickinson University, Teaneck,  NJ.
